You made it.
You are as mentally exhausted as you
would be during a real interview,
except with less judgement
from the interviewer.
Just kidding, I've been secretly
judging you all this entire time.
All right, so what now?
The results.
These things are binary.
Either you pass, or you didn't pass.
Odds are, you're probably gonna fail.
I still say this, even after this, even
after doing many, many interviews, and
giving many, many interviews,
I still say interviews are half luck.
I do, that's just the way it is.
Sometimes you're just gonna get the right
question on the right day with the right
Interviewer, and you're just in your
groove, feel like, I know this.
I know how to implement a sleep function
because I've thought about this before.
I know how to implement debounce.
And you'll just have it.
You're in your groove and
you know it, and it feels so good.
Sometimes, it's just not your day.
They ask you every
question we didn't cover,
every question that you
couldn't possibly know.
Or it's just a bad question, or
you get up there and you freeze.
It's okay, you're not a failure,
that happens.
I have failed many interviews,
I've probably failed more
interviews than I've passed.
I've tried to get to 500 but
yeah, it's tough.
It's all right, you're no less of
an engineer, and it's a hard ego blow.
But it's gonna happen,
just mentally prepare yourself for it.
And if you pass, hey,
maybe I'll do a short course on
how to negotiate your offer.
That's always the fun phase.
When you can increase your
salary by like 50 grand,
maybe more if you're good at negotiating,
maybe some stock options.
Maybe some nice vacation time.
That's the good times.
That's what you wanna get to.
You want that positive stress.
Like, what if I could squeeze them for
ten grand more?
That's a good time.
If you failed, that's okay.
What you can try to do is ask for
feedback.
A lot of companies are cagey with
feedback, I think it's a lawsuit thing,
they don't want to get sued or
something like that.
But hopefully, if the company's good,
they'll give you some feedback.
They'll say, hey, you know what?
You aced CSS, you aced HTML.
Some of your data structure's
though a little weak.
I would come back and study those.
That's good feedback.
Remember, there's winning and
then there's learning.
Now, if you're the interviewer and
you say, hey, I really like this person.
They were fantastic.
They didn't quite have the depth of
knowledge that we're looking for.
That's gonna happen, too.
Not everybody you interview is gonna pass.
That's just the way it goes.
So as the interviewer,
I really encourage you to give feedback.
I definitely encourage you.
If you interview for my team, and you
have the phone screen, I always write up,
it takes a bit of time, but
I always write up, hey,
here's the pros of what this person did.
Here's where they didn't succeed as much,
but
they're welcome to come back and
try again.
And that's helpful,
cuz if I just say no, no what?
What didn't I do right?
That's not helpful to anybody.
If you really like them,
invite them to reapply.
Give them feedback.
Say hey, if you come back and work on, I
don't know, your CSS a bit, I think you'd
be an ace for this position, but we need
you to show a little bit more depth there.
I know someone,
they applied to Netflix three times.
Failed two times,
got through the third time.
Third time, they aced it.
That's the kinda people I wanna work with,
people that are dedicated.
And like I said,
you're probably gonna fail at some point.
It's okay.
If you gave a good experience,
a positive experience, and
you were helpful on the way, you helped
them, they didn't get stuck anywhere.
If they did get stuck,
you really helped them out.
You invite them to reapply.
Engineering, especially front engineering,
is a really small world.
I can throw out some names and
you probably all follow them on Twitter or
something like that,
because we all know the same thing.
It's a small universe.
So don't be a jerk to people
who are interviewing with you.
You will probably see them again and
they'll remember you.
And stay in touch.
If you really like someone and
you feel like they have a lot of
potential, stay in touch with them.
Reach out every six months to say hey,
you want to reapply?
The worst thing that happens
is you get rejected.
There's no cost.
Other than your ego,
there's no cost to that.
All right.
So that was interviewing for finance.
Great job everyone, you all made it.
We're all a little tired.
I'm a little wired, had my green tea.
Feeling good.
But you made it through
the end of the day.
Now, again I can't guarantee
that all these questions
you'll see perfectly examples,
you'll see like exact replicas.
But you'll probably see some
similar problems along the way.
And it really helps if you follow along
how to break down that problem and
try to understand what
are they trying to get at.
I'm trying to understand this
person understands promises or
they understand like how to
iterate the DOM, things like that.
And don't focus so
much on getting the right answer,
talk about how you got to the solution.
That's probably the most
helpful advice I can give you.
Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]